The previous lectures we have presented the motion of the robot and how those represents the motion
comments to make a robot move.
However what we have done so far is kind of a blank motion without awareness of the surrounding environment
of the robot in real applications.
It is mandatory that a robot perceives the environment around it and extract useful information from
the environment to be able to plan his motion and add in an appropriate fashion.
This is referred to as robot perception which is a popular feeling robotics based on computer and computer
vision includes method for acquiring processing analyzing and understanding digital images.
Typically Robert uses a camera to see the world around it.
And this camera will provide the robot with a feed of images that it needs to process so that to extract
useful information.
Image Processing is a very complex and challenging task.
Fortunately in the last 20 years a lot of research has been done and significant advancement took place.
It is not possible to accurately analyze the content of an image and extract useful information out
of it.
The most popular library for computer vision and image processing is open.
It provides a comprehensive set of tools and when it comes to perform complex operation of image processing
and complete revision in real time the objective of this lecture is to get an overview about oppositely
and it's an important feature.
So open Sivy is an open source computer vision Leibert it was released under the BSD license and it
is free for both academic and commercial use.
It supports multiple programming languages namely C++ wife and Java and works under different operating
systems including Windows Mac OS Linux iOS and Android.
It has a strong focus on realtime since it was written C++ and has been optimized open Sivy can perform
a lot of operations related to computer vision.
This is a sample of these operations.
It can do to the image processing.
It can also form image input and output and video input output.
It can read images from files it can read video streams coming from us be cameras from video files it
can perform camera calibration video analysis like motional extract and feature tracking foreground
extraction and nowadays with the advances of much learning and deep learning technology it is possible
to accurately perform object detection and also recognition.
OPEC also supports accelerated computer vision and it has much much more functionalities so let's see
a couple of functionalities that we can use with our PC.
One of the basic functions of a PC is to do image segmentation so image segmentation is the process
of partitioning a digital image into a multiple segments and it is used to locate objects and boundaries
in images.
Another operation is industry shoaling and thresholding is the simplest method of image segmentation.
It allows to transform a grayscale image to a binary image.
So the idea here is to take a color as a shot and any color above the threshold will be considered as
white and any color below the threshold will be considered as black so the resulting image will be binary
either black or white.
With the advances of machine learning and deep neural networks it is not possible to detect and they
cognize objects inside an image.
And this technology has promoted a lot of applications like for example autonomous vehicles which rely
on computer vision technique to observe the world around them.
It is also possible to do nice drawing with open Zeevi.
For example it's possible to draw circles lines polygons text and make different shapes.
The practical lecturer we're going to do a little bit of drawing actually the action is also an important
operation in complete revision.
It consists in finding the boundaries of objects within the image and works by detecting discontinuities
in brightness.
Edge detection is used for image segmentation and data structure.
One of the very useful functionalities in AAPC is that to read and write images and videos trips up
and TV it becomes very simple to read an image and load it into a data structure for further processing.
This was a brief background.
An open Zeevi functionalities.
And now let's move to the practical part of this section.